website[blog]: first iteration of companion 2.0 blog post (#2469)
transloadit/uppy: website/src/_posts/2020-08-companion-2.0.md

---
title: "Companion 2.0 is here"
date: 2020-08-20
author: ife
published: false
---

Companion 2.0 is here! 🎉 After maintaining and improving the 1.x series for over a year, we're releasing a Major version bump on the Companion package. So what are the changes you'd expect to see on Companion 2.0?

## Node >= v10

> As you must have heard, Node v8.x has reached EOL, and in turn Companion 2.0 drops support for Node v6.x, Node v8.x and now requires that you run at least Node v10.x.

Reviewer: imho we can shorten this a bit and explain the acronym. I think the "official" spelling for node versions is "Node.js X.Y.Z", without a `v`, but people would understand either way :)
```suggestion
Node.js 8.x has reached End-of-life, and in turn Companion 2.0 drops support for Node.js 6.x, Node.js 8.x and now requires that you run at least Node.js 10.x.
```

## Renamed Provider Options

Pre 2.0 there were inconsistencies in relation to the Provider names. In some places, the Google Drive provider was referred to as *google* (e.g in `providerOptions`) and in some other places, it was referred to as *drive* (e.g the server endpoints `/drive/list`). In Companion 2.0 it is now made to have the consistent name *drive* everywhere. Similarly the OneDrive provider is made to have the consistent name *onedrive* for the same reason.

## Changed Redirect URIs

> On the journey to have more consistent naming with the providers (mentioned above), we have made changes to the redirect URIs that is supplied during the OAuth process. For example, for Google Drive, the old redirect URI was of the form `https://mycompanionwebsite.tld/connect/google/callback`. In Companion 2.0, this is now changed to `https://mycompanionwebsite.tld/drive/redirect`. This is a Breaking Change and it means you would need to make these corresponding changes to your redirect URIs on your Providers' API Dashboards.

Reviewer: I think this first sentence is also a bit lengthy but I don't have a good suggestion to improve it, so maybe we should ask AJ for some expert editing later :)

Author: I rephrased it a bit. Please let me know if you think it still needs adjustment

## Compatibility with Uppy 1.x client

> Compannion 2.0 is compatible with any Uppy 1.x version, so you don't have to worry what Companion version a server may be runnning before using your Uppy client with it.

Reviewer: lil typo
```suggestion
Companion 2.0 is compatible with any Uppy 1.x version, so you don't have to worry what Companion version a server may be runnning before using your Uppy client with it.
```

---
title: "Companion 2.0 is here"
date: 2020-08-20
author: ife
published: false
---

> Companion 2.0 is here! 🎉 After maintaining and improving the 1.x series for over a year, we're releasing a Major version bump on the Companion package. Why you ask? Well, the drive on this release is mainly towards fixing some terminology inconsistencies and aligning with Node.js LTS to ease the maintenance burden.

Author: I have added a note about this here https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/2469/commits/8e491bb6a57cab3bae053be7e3a6656bcec3a9c3

So what are the changes you'd expect to see on Companion 2.0?

## Node >= v10

> Node.js 8.x has reached End-of-life, and in turn Companion 2.0 drops support for Node.js 6.x, Node.js 8.x and now requires that you run at least Node.js 10.x.

Author: Correct, added

## Renamed Provider Options

Pre 2.0 there were inconsistencies in relation to the Provider names. In some places, the Google Drive provider was referred to as *google* (e.g in `providerOptions`) and in some other places, it was referred to as *drive* (e.g the server endpoints `/drive/list`). In Companion 2.0 it is now made to have the consistent name *drive* everywhere. Similarly the OneDrive provider is made to have the consistent name *onedrive* for the same reason.

## Changed Redirect URIs

Still on consistent naming, we have made some changes to the redirect URIs supplied during the OAuth process. For example, for Google Drive, the old redirect URI was of the form `https://mycompanionwebsite.tld/connect/google/callback`. In Companion 2.0, this is now changed to `https://mycompanionwebsite.tld/drive/redirect`. This is a Breaking Change and it means you would need to make these corresponding changes to your redirect URIs on your Providers' API Dashboards.

## Compatibility with Uppy 1.x client

> Companion 2.0 is compatible with any Uppy 1.x version, so you don't have to worry what Companion version a server may be runnning before using your Uppy client with it.

Author: so I rephrased it to something similar:

```
Companion 2.0 is compatible with any Uppy 1.x version, so you don't have to worry about upgrading your Uppy client installations when you upgrade Companion on your server.
```

Please let me know what you think

## Migrating from Companion 1.x to 2.x

> Given the breaking changes, we've put together a list of changes to make if you'd like to upgrade to Companion 2.0. You can have a look at this list [here](https://uppy.io/docs/companion/#Migrating-v1-to-v2).

Author: fixed, thank you!
